DigitalOcean
============

.. versionadded:: 0.3

As of microservices-infrastructure 0.3 you can bring up DigitalOcean
environments using Terraform.

Configuring Terraform for DigitalOcean
--------------------------------------

Before we can build any servers using Terraform and Ansible, we need to
configure authentication. We'll be filling in the authentication variables for
the template located at ``terraform/digitalocean.sample.tf``. It looks like
this:

.. this is highlighted as javascript for convenience, but obviously that's not
   the *real* language.
.. literalinclude:: ../../terraform/digitalocean.sample.tf
   :language: javascript

Copy that file in it's entirety to the root of the project to start
customization. In the next sections, we'll explain how to obtain these settings.

API Key
^^^^^^^

To use DigitalOcean from Terraform, you'll need an API key. You can create one
at the API page of DigitalOcean UI.

.. image:: /_static/digitalocean_no_tokens.png
   :alt: The DigitalOcean API UI

To create a token, click "Generate New Token" in the "Personal Access Tokens"
list. Name your token (``microservices-infrastructure`` could be a good name)
and make sure that write access is granted.

.. image:: /_static/digitalocean_new_token.png
   :alt: The token creation page, making sure write access is granted.

Once your token is created, you will need to copy it to the "token" field of the
DigitalOcean provider. The token will only be displayed once, so do it before
refreshing the page or navigating away.

.. image:: /_static/digitalocean_created_token.png
   :alt: The DigitalOcean API UI showing a created token.

If you don't want to keep your access token in a file, you can instead write it
to an environment variable:

.. envvar:: DIGITALOCEAN_TOKEN

   The DigitalOcean token to use for Terraform-created resources

Regions and Sizes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

As the sample notes, the region you deploy in must support metadata. All the
newer regions support this (NYC3, for instance.) If you don't use a
metadata-supported region Ansible will not know which roles to apply to your
servers.

To find out if your desired region has metadata support:

.. code-block:: shell

    curl -u "$DIGITALOCEAN_KEY:" https://api.digitalocean.com/v2/regions

This call will return a list of objects like the following. If ``"metadata"`` is
in the "features" key, you can use the provided slug as ``region_name`` to
select it.

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "name": "New York 3",
        "slug": "nyc3",
        "sizes": [
            "32gb",
            "16gb",
            "2gb",
            "1gb",
            "4gb",
            "8gb",
            "512mb",
            "64gb",
            "48gb"
        ],
        "features": [
            "private_networking",
            "backups",
            "ipv6",
            "metadata"
        ],
        "available": true
    }

Provisioning
------------

Once you're all set up with the provider, customize your modules (for
``control_count`` and ``worker_count``), run ``terraform get`` to prepare
Terraform to provision your cluster, ``terraform plan`` to see what will be
created, and ``terraform apply`` to provision the cluster. Afterwards, you can
use the instructions in :doc:`getting started <index>` to install
microservices-infrastructure on your new cluster.
